Add documentation for star tree index feature (#8598)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _field-types/supported-field-types/star-tree.md

---
layout: default
title: Star Tree
nav_order: 61
has_children: false
parent: Supported field types
redirect_from:
  - /opensearch/supported-field-types/star-tree/
  - /field-types/star-tree/
---
# Star tree field type

This is an experimental feature and is not recommended for use in a production environment. For updates on the progress the feature or if you want to leave feedback, join the discussion on the [OpenSearch forum](https://forum.opensearch.org/).    
{: .warning}

> Star Tree Index is a multi-field index that improves the performance of aggregations by pre-computing the aggregations.

Reviewer: nit : Can be changed similar to `index.md`

> Once you configure star-tree index as part of index mapping by specifying the dimensions and metrics, star-tree index gets created and maintained in real-time within segments as data is ingested.

Reviewer: dimensions and metrics are used 2 times before there is an explanation for them. 

Maybe we can just mention briefly define them before or use a different statement like 
```
A star-tree index is maintained in real-time within segments during ingestion after it's created.
```

            {
              "name": "port"
            }
          ],
          "metrics": [
            {
              "name": "request_size",
              "stats": [
                "sum",
                "value_count",
                "min",
                "max"
              ],
              "name": "latency",
              "stats": [
                "sum",
                "value_count",
                "min",
                "max"
              ]
            }
          ]
        }
      }
    },
    "properties": {
      "status": {
        "type": "integer"
      },
      "port": {
        "type": "integer"
      },
      "request_size": {
        "type": "integer"
      },
      "latency": {
        "type": "scaled_float",
        "scaling_factor": 10
      }
    }
  }
}
```
In the above example, for `startree1` , we will create an associated Star Tree index. Currently only `one` star-tree index can be created per index with support for multiple star-trees coming in future. <br/>

## Star tree mapping parameters
Specify star-tree configuration under `config` section. All parameters are final and cannot be modified without reindexing documents.

### Ordered dimensions

> The `ordered_dimensions` are fields based on which the metrics will be aggregated in star-tree index. Star Tree index will be picked for query optimizations only if all the fields in the query are part of the `ordered_dimensions`. This is a required property as part of star-tree configuration.

Reviewer: Sure. The query profiling will show that star tree was getting used right ? 

If that's the case we can just put a caution saying to verify the profile output to be certainly sure.

> The `ordered_dimensions` are fields based on which the metrics will be aggregated in star-tree index. Star Tree index will be picked for query optimizations only if all the fields in the query are part of the `ordered_dimensions`. This is a required property as part of star-tree configuration.

Author: No for star tree , query will be same with earlyTerminatingCollectors for leafCollector.

|:---------------------| :--- |:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `name` | Required | Name of the field which should also be present in `properties` as part of index `mapping` and ensure `doc_values` is `enabled` for associated fields.

### Metrics
Configure fields for which you need to perform aggregations. This is required property as part of star-tree configuration.
- Currently, supported fields for `metrics` are of [numeric field types](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/field-types/supported-field-types/numeric/) with the exception of `unsigned_long`.
- Supported metric aggregations include `Min`, `Max`, `Sum`, `Avg` and `Value_count`. 
  - `Avg` is a derived metric based on `Sum` and `Value_count` and is not indexed and is derived on query time. Rest are base metrics which are indexed.

> - Upto `100` base metrics are supported per Star Tree index.

Reviewer: This can be elaborated to make sure end user understands there are different ways of reaching this limit.

### Star tree configuration parameters
Following are additional optional parameters that can be configured alongside star-tree index.

| Parameter       | Required/Optional | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | 
|:----------------|:------------------|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | `max_leaf_docs` | Optional          | The maximum number of star-tree documents leaf node can point to post which the nodes will be split to next dimension.10000 is the default value. Lowering the value will result in high storage size but faster query performance and the other way around when increasing the value. For more, see [star tree indexing structure]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/star-tree-index/#star-tree-index-structure) 

Author: All parameters are final , cannot be changed once index is created which is mentioned in the start of the section.

```
Specify star-tree configuration under `config` section. All parameters are final and cannot be modified without reindexing documents.
```

> | `max_leaf_docs` | Optional          | The maximum number of star-tree documents leaf node can point to post which the nodes will be split to next dimension.10000 is the default value. Lowering the value will result in high storage size but faster query performance and the other way around when increasing the value. For more, see [star tree indexing structure]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/star-tree-index/#star-tree-index-structure) 

Author: Do you think it'll be more clear for users if we again mention that these parameters are final under this section ?

> | `max_leaf_docs` | Optional          | The maximum number of star-tree documents leaf node can point to post which the nodes will be split to next dimension.10000 is the default value. Lowering the value will result in high storage size but faster query performance and the other way around when increasing the value. For more, see [star tree indexing structure]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/star-tree-index/#star-tree-index-structure) 

Reviewer: Missed that part. 
Although it can be briefly repeated after `### Star tree configuration parameters`

## Examples

The following examples show how to use Star Tree index.

### Star tree index mapping

Define Star Tree mapping under new section `composite` in `mappings`. <br/>
To compute metric aggregations for `request_size` and `latency` fields with queries on `port` and `status` fields, configure the following mappings:

```json
PUT logs
{
  "settings": {
    "index.number_of_shards": 1,
    "index.number_of_replicas": 0,
    "index.composite_index": true
  },
  "mappings": {
    "composite": {
      "startree1": {
        "type": "star_tree",
        "config": {
          "max_leaf_docs": 10000,
          "skip_star_node_creation_for_dimensions": [
            "port"
          ],
          "ordered_dimensions": [
            {
              "name": "status"
            },
            {
              "name": "port"
            }
          ],
          "metrics": [
            {
              "name": "request_size",
              "stats": [
                "sum",
                "value_count",
                "min",
                "max"

>               ],

Reviewer: Same invalid JSON here as well

---
layout: default
title: Star Tree
nav_order: 61
has_children: false
parent: Supported field types
redirect_from:
  - /opensearch/supported-field-types/star-tree/
  - /field-types/star-tree/
---
# Star tree field type

This is an experimental feature and is not recommended for use in a production environment. For updates on the progress the feature or if you want to leave feedback, join the discussion on the [OpenSearch forum](https://forum.opensearch.org/).    
{: .warning}

> Star Tree Index (STIX) pre-computes aggregations to accelerate the performance of aggregation queries.

Reviewer 2: thinking if there is way to avoid aggregations twice in the same sentence

Author: All the limits and defaults are mentioned in the documentation already [ which comes from StarTreeIndexSettings]. The cluster and index setting is mentioned separately.

Is there any setting that user can change which is not mentioned here ?

Author: We can wait for doc team review/feedback on this

> Once you configure star-tree index as part of index mapping, it will be created and maintained in real-time within segments as data is ingested.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If STIX is configured as part of index mapping, it will be created and maintained in real-time as the data is ingested.
```

> OpenSearch will automatically use the star-tree index to optimize aggregations based on the input query and star-tree configuration. No changes are required in the query syntax or requests.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
OpenSearch will automatically use the star tree index to optimize aggregations if the fields queried are as part of star tree's dimension fields and the aggregations is on star tree's metrics fields. No changes are required in the query syntax or the request parameters.
```

For more information, see [Star Tree index]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/star-tree-index/)

## Prerequisites

> Before using star-tree field, be sure to satisfy the following prerequisites:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To use star-tree on your index, the following prerequisites needs to be satisfied:
```

    "index.number_of_replicas": 0,
    "index.composite_index": true
  },
  "mappings": {
    "composite": {
      "startree1": {
        "type": "star_tree",
        "config": {
          "max_leaf_docs": 10000,
          "skip_star_node_creation_for_dimensions": [
            "port"
          ],
          "ordered_dimensions": [
            {
              "name": "status"
            },
            {
              "name": "port"
            }
          ],
          "metrics": [
            {
              "name": "request_size",
              "stats": [
                "sum",
                "value_count",
                "min",
                "max"
              ],
              "name": "latency",
              "stats": [
                "sum",
                "value_count",
                "min",
                "max"
              ]
            }
          ]
        }
      }
    },
    "properties": {
      "status": {
        "type": "integer"
      },
      "port": {
        "type": "integer"
      },
      "request_size": {
        "type": "integer"
      },
      "latency": {
        "type": "scaled_float",
        "scaling_factor": 10
      }
    }
  }
}
```

> In the above example, for `startree1` , we will create an associated Star Tree index. Currently only `one` star-tree index can be created per index with support for multiple star-trees coming in future. <br/>

Reviewer 2: should we mention that startree1 is the name to uniquely identify a single star tree for an index?

Author: For users its irrelevant right - they don't use this anywhere.

> In the above example, for `startree1` , we will create an associated Star Tree index. Currently only `one` star-tree index can be created per index with support for multiple star-trees coming in future. <br/>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In the above example, for `startree1` , we will create an associated Star Tree index. Currently only `one` star-tree index can be created per index . Support for multiple star-trees is a work in progress and will be released in future. <br/>
```

## Star tree mapping parameters
Specify star-tree configuration under `config` section. All parameters are final and cannot be modified without reindexing documents.

### Ordered dimensions

> The `ordered_dimensions` are fields based on which the metrics will be aggregated in star-tree index. Star Tree index will be picked for query optimizations only if all the fields in the query are part of the `ordered_dimensions`. This is a required property as part of star-tree configuration.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `ordered_dimensions` are fields based on which the metrics will be aggregated in a star-tree index. Star Tree index will be picked for querying only if all the fields in the query are part of the `ordered_dimensions`. 
```

- The order of dimensions matter and you can define the dimensions ordered from the highest cardinality to the lowest cardinality for efficient storage and query pruning. 

> - Avoid high cardinality fields as dimensions , because it'll affect storage space, indexing throughput and query performance adversely.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Avoid high cardinality fields as dimensions as it'll affect storage space, indexing throughput and query performance adversely.
```

> - Currently, supported fields for `ordered_dimensions` are of [numeric field types](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/field-types/supported-field-types/numeric/) with the exception of `unsigned_long`. 

Reviewer 2: should we mention that why not unsigned_long?

Author: Probably can link the GitHub issue.

>   - Support for other field_types such as `keyword` , `ip` is coming as part of upcoming releases.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - Support for other field_types such as `keyword`, `ip` is currently work in progress and will be released in future versions.
```

- Minimum of `2` and maximum of `10` dimensions are supported per Star Tree index.

> 

Reviewer 3: can we also talk about the deletions, to indicate star tree will not be used if there deletions in the segment

Author: https://github.com/opensearch-project/documentation-website/pull/8598/files#diff-61a0a1308a1d9a7b73227cd04b88da08ce2665d65c77c07bca95f02e97244a56R47 - Its part of `considerations` section in the other md file coming as part of `improving search performance` which gives the feature intro etc.

Kindly let me know if we need to reiterate this again in this page as well.

Reviewer 3: Given that this is more like of summary of the same, it would be good to add it here as well. Thoughts?

Reviewer 3: Makes sense! thanks!

|:---------------------| :--- |:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `name` | Required | Name of the field which should also be present in `properties` as part of index `mapping` and ensure `doc_values` is `enabled` for associated fields.

### Metrics
Configure fields for which you need to perform aggregations. This is required property as part of star-tree configuration.
- Currently, supported fields for `metrics` are of [numeric field types](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/field-types/supported-field-types/numeric/) with the exception of `unsigned_long`.
- Supported metric aggregations include `Min`, `Max`, `Sum`, `Avg` and `Value_count`. 

>   - `Avg` is a derived metric based on `Sum` and `Value_count` and is not indexed and is derived on query time. Rest are base metrics which are indexed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - `Avg` is a derived metric based on `Sum` and `Value_count` and is not indexed and is derived on query time. Rest of the base metrics are indexed.
```

- Maximum of `100` base metrics are supported per Star Tree index.

> For example, say you provide `Min`, `Max`, `Sum` and `Value_count` as part of all fields as part of `metrics` configuration, you can provide up to 25 fields as below

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For example, say you provide `Min`, `Max`, `Sum` and `Value_count` as `metrics` for each field. Then, you can provide up to 25 fields as below.
```

- Set the `indices.composite_index.star_tree.enabled` setting to `true`. For instructions on how to configure OpenSearch, see [configuring settings]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/install-and-configure/configuring-opensearch/index/#static-settings).
- Set the `index.composite_index` index setting to `true` during index creation.
- Enable `doc_values` : Ensure that the `doc_values` is enabled for the [dimensions](#ordered-dimensions) and [metrics](#metrics) fields used in your Star Tree mapping.
- Star Tree index ideally should be used with indexes whose data is not updated or deleted, as updates and/or deletes are not accounted in Star Tree index.

## Examples

The following examples show how to use Star Tree index.

### Star tree index mapping

Define Star Tree mapping under new section `composite` in `mappings`. <br/>
To compute metric aggregations for `request_size` and `latency` fields with queries on `port` and `status` fields, configure the following mappings:

```json
PUT logs
{
  "settings": {
    "index.number_of_shards": 1,
    "index.number_of_replicas": 0,
    "index.composite_index": true
  },
  "mappings": {
    "composite": {

>       "startree1": {

Reviewer 3: does it need to be startree1, can it be called request_aggs?

Author: This is basically the star tree field name - which can be anything as long as its unique when multiple star trees are supported.

Reviewer 3: I felt ```request_aggs``` or something similar is more meaningful, similar to the index names in SQL tables.

Author: sure changing it

        "type": "star_tree",
        "config": {
          "max_leaf_docs": 10000,
          "skip_star_node_creation_for_dimensions": [
            "port"
          ],
          "ordered_dimensions": [
            {
              "name": "status"
            },
            {
              "name": "port"
            }
          ],
          "metrics": [
            {
              "name": "request_size",
              "stats": [
                "sum",
                "value_count",
                "min",
                "max"
              ]
            },
            {
              "name": "latency",
              "stats": [
                "sum",
                "value_count",
                "min",
                "max"
              ]
            }
          ]
        }
      }
    },
    "properties": {
      "status": {
        "type": "integer"
      },
      "port": {
        "type": "integer"
      },
      "request_size": {
        "type": "integer"
      },
      "latency": {
        "type": "scaled_float",
        "scaling_factor": 10
      }
    }
  }
}
```

> In the above example, for `startree1` , we will create an associated Star Tree index. Currently only `one` Star Tree index can be created per index. Support for multiple Star Trees is a work in progress and will be released in the future. <br/>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In the above example, for `startree1`, it will create an corresponding STIX. Currently only `one` STIX can be created per index. Support for multiple Star Trees is a work in progress and will be released in the future. <br/>
```

## Star tree mapping parameters
Specify Star Tree configuration under `config` section. All parameters are final and cannot be modified without reindexing documents.

### Ordered dimensions

> The `ordered_dimensions` are fields based on which the metrics will be aggregated in a Star Tree index. Star Tree index will be picked for querying only if all the fields in the query are part of the `ordered_dimensions`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `ordered_dimensions` are fields based on which the metrics will be aggregated in a STIX. STIX will be picked for querying only if all the fields in the query are part of the `ordered_dimensions`.
```

We can use STIX where ever Star Tree Index is used, use Star Tree as is in other places.

- The order of dimensions matter and you can define the dimensions ordered from the highest cardinality to the lowest cardinality for efficient storage and query pruning. 
- Avoid high cardinality fields as dimensions as it'll affect storage space, indexing throughput and query performance adversely.
- Currently, supported fields for `ordered_dimensions` are of [numeric field types](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/field-types/supported-field-types/numeric/) with the exception of `unsigned_long`(see [GitHub issue](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/15231)). 
  - Support for other field_types such as `keyword`, `ip` is currently work in progress and will be released in future versions (see [GitHub issue](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/16232))

> - Minimum of `2` and maximum of `10` dimensions are supported per Star Tree index.

Reviewer 3: Doesn't it support just one dimension?

Author: Right now we support minimum of 2 dimensions. 

I too thought if really 2 dimensions are needed especially with date field. Maybe we can remove the restriction in next possible release.

| `name` | Required | Name of the field which should also be present in `properties` as part of index `mapping` and ensure `doc_values` is `enabled` for associated fields.

### Metrics
Configure fields for which you need to perform aggregations. This is required property as part of Star Tree configuration.
- Currently, supported fields for `metrics` are of [numeric field types](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/field-types/supported-field-types/numeric/) with the exception of `unsigned_long` (see [GitHub issue](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/15231)).
- Supported metric aggregations include `Min`, `Max`, `Sum`, `Avg` and `Value_count`. 
  - `Avg` is a derived metric based on `Sum` and `Value_count` and is not indexed and is derived on query time. Rest of the base metrics are indexed.
- Maximum of `100` base metrics are supported per Star Tree index.

> For example, say you provide `Min`, `Max`, `Sum` and `Value_count` as `metrics` for each field. Then, you can provide up to 25 fields as below.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For example, if `Min`, `Max`, `Sum` and `Value_count` are defined as `metrics` for each field. Then, up to 25 such fields can be configured as below.
```

---
layout: default
title: Star-tree
nav_order: 61
parent: Supported field types
---

# Star-tree field type

This is an experimental feature and is not recommended for use in a production environment. For updates on the progress of the feature or if you want to leave feedback, join the discussion on the [OpenSearch forum](https://forum.opensearch.org/).    
{: .warning}

A [star-tree index](https://docs.pinot.apache.org/basics/indexing/star-tree-index) precomputes aggregations, accelerating the performance of aggregation queries. 
If a star-tree index is configured as part of an index mapping, the star-tree index is created and maintained as data is ingested in real time.

OpenSearch will automatically use the star-tree index to optimize aggregations if the queried fields are part of star-tree index dimension fields and the aggregations are on star-tree index metric fields. No changes are required in the query syntax or the request parameters.

For more information, see [Star-tree index]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/star-tree-index/).

## Prerequisites

> To use a star-tree index, follow the instructions in [Enabling a star-tree index]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/star-tree-index#enabling-the-star-tree-index).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To use a star-tree index, follow the instructions in [Enabling a star-tree index]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/star-tree-index#enabling-a-star-tree-index).
```

## Limitations

The star-tree index feature has the following limitations:

> 

Reviewer 4: Switched to "enabled". A star-tree index has to be based on a previous index.

> - A star-tree index should only be used on indexes whose data is not updated or deleted because standard updates and deletions are not accounted for in a star-tree index.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- A star-tree index should only be enabled on indexes whose data is not updated or deleted because standard updates and deletions are not accounted for in a star-tree index.
```

- Currently, only `one` star-tree index can be created per index. Support for multiple star-trees will be added in a future release.

## Examples

> The following examples show how to use a star-tree index

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The following examples show how to use a star-tree index.
```

> ### Star-tree index mapping

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### Star-tree index mappings
```

> Define star-tree index mapping in the `composite` section in `mappings`. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Define star-tree index mappings in the `composite` section in `mappings`. 
```

> The following example creates a corresponding star-tree index for all `request_aggs`. To compute metric aggregations for `request_size` and `latency` fields with queries on `port` and `status` fields, configure the following mappings:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The following example API request creates a corresponding star-tree index for all `request_aggs`. To compute metric aggregations for `request_size` and `latency` fields with queries on `port` and `status` fields, configure the following mappings:
```

> The following example API request creates a corresponding star-tree index for all `request_aggs`. To compute metric aggregations for `request_size` and `latency` fields with queries on `port` and `status` fields, configure the following mappings:

Author: Maybe 
> The following example API request creates a corresponding star-tree index configuration under `request_aggs`

            },
            {
              "name": "port"
            }
          ],
          "metrics": [
            {
              "name": "request_size",
              "stats": [
                "sum",
                "value_count",
                "min",
                "max"
              ]
            },
            {
              "name": "latency",
              "stats": [
                "sum",
                "value_count",
                "min",
                "max"
              ]
            }
          ]
        }
      }
    },
    "properties": {
      "status": {
        "type": "integer"
      },
      "port": {
        "type": "integer"
      },
      "request_size": {
        "type": "integer"
      },
      "latency": {
        "type": "scaled_float",
        "scaling_factor": 10
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## Star tree mapping parameters

Specify any star-tree configuration mapping options under the `config` section. All parameters are final and cannot be modified without reindexing documents.

The star-tree `config` section supports the following property.

| Parameter  | Required/Optional | Description  | 
| :--- | :--- | :--- |

> | `name` | Required | The name of the field. The field name should be present in the `properties` section as part of index `mapping`. Ensure that the `doc_values` setting is `enabled` for any associated fields.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| `name` | Required | The name of the field. The field name should be present in the `properties` section as part of the index `mapping`. Ensure that the `doc_values` setting is `enabled` for any associated fields.
```

> | `name` | Required | The name of the field. The field name should be present in the `properties` section as part of the index `mapping`. Ensure that the `doc_values` setting is `enabled` for any associated fields.

Author: Confused on this - `config` itself doesn't have a `name` property. Can we remove this ? 

Under config , user can specify `ordered_dimensions`, `metrics`, `max_leaf_docs` and `skip_star_node_creation_for_dimensions`.

Reviewer 4: I'll remove this. We have the definitions for `max_leaf_docs` and `skip_star_node_creation_for_dimensions` on line 193.

When using the `ordered_dimesions` parameter, remember the following best practices:

- The order of dimensions matter. You can define the dimensions ordered from the highest cardinality to the lowest cardinality for efficient storage and query pruning. 
- Avoid high cardinality fields as dimensions. High cardinality fields adversely affect storage space, indexing throughput, and query performance.
- Currently, supported fields for `ordered_dimensions` are all [numeric field types](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/field-types/supported-field-types/numeric/) with the exception of `unsigned_long`. For more information, see [GitHub issue #15231](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/15231). 
- Support for other field_types such as `keyword`, `ip`  will be released in future versions. For more information, see [GitHub issue #16232](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/16232).
- A minimum of `2` and maximum of `10` dimensions are supported per star-tree index.

> 

Reviewer 4: field types

> `ordered_dimensions` supports the following property

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
`ordered_dimensions` supports the following property.
```

| Parameter  | Required/Optional | Description  | 
| :--- | :--- | :--- |

> | `name` | Required | The name of the field. The field name should be present in the `properties` section as part of index `mapping`. Ensure that the `doc_values` setting is `enabled` for any associated fields. |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| `name` | Required | The name of the field. The field name should be present in the `properties` section as part of the index `mapping`. Ensure that the `doc_values` setting is `enabled` for any associated fields. |
```

### Metrics

> Configure any metric fields for which you need to perform aggregations. `Metrics` are required as part of a star-tree configuration.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Configure any metric fields on which you need to perform aggregations. `Metrics` are required as part of a star-tree configuration.
```

- Supported metric aggregations include `Min`, `Max`, `Sum`, `Avg` and `Value_count`. 
    - `Avg` is a derived metric based on `Sum` and `Value_count` and is not indexed and is derived on query time. Rest of the base metrics are indexed.
- A maximum of `100` base metrics are supported per star-tree index.

If `Min`, `Max`, `Sum` and `Value_count` are defined as `metrics` for each field then up to 25 such fields can be configured, as shown in the following example:

```json
{
  "metrics": [
    {
      "name": "field1",
      "stats": [
        "sum",
        "value_count",
        "min",
        "max"
      ],
      ...,
      ...,
      "name": "field25",
      "stats": [
        "sum",
        "value_count",
        "min",
        "max"
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

#### Properties

The `metrics` parameter supports the following properties:

| Parameter   | Required/Optional | Description  | 
| :--- | :--- | :--- |

> | `name` | Required | The name of the field. The field name should be present in the `properties` section as part of index `mapping`. Ensure that the `doc_values` setting is `enabled` for any associated fields. |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| `name` | Required | The name of the field. The field name should be present in the `properties` section as part of the index `mapping`. Ensure that the `doc_values` setting is `enabled` for any associated fields. |
```

| `stats` | Optional | A list of metric aggregations computed for each field. You can choose between `Min`, `Max`, `Sum`, `Avg`, and `Value Count`.<br/>Default is `Sum` and `Value_count`.<br/>`Avg` is a derived metric statistic that will automatically be supported in queries if `Sum` and `Value_Count` are present as part of metric `stats`.

### Star-tree configuration parameters

The following parameters are optional and cannot be modified following index creation.

| Parameter  | Description   | 
| :--- | :--- |

> | `max_leaf_docs` | The maximum number of star-tree documents that a leaf node can point to. After the maximum number of documents is reached, the nodes will be split to the next dimension. Default is `10000`. A lower value will use more storage but result in faster query performance. Inversely, a higher value will use less storage but result in slower query performance. For more information, see [Star-tree indexing structure]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/star-tree-index/#star-tree-index-structure).  |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| `max_leaf_docs` | The maximum number of star-tree documents that a leaf node can point to. After the maximum number of documents is reached, the nodes will be split based on the value of the next dimension. Default is `10000`. A lower value will use more storage but result in faster query performance. Inversely, a higher value will use less storage but result in slower query performance. For more information, see [Star-tree indexing structure]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/star-tree-index/#star-tree-index-structure).  |
```

> | `max_leaf_docs` | The maximum number of star-tree documents a leaf node can point to. After the maximum number is reached post which the nodes will be split to the next dimension. Default is `10000`. A lower value will use more storage but result in faster query performance. Inversely, a higher value will use less storage but result in slower query performance.  For more information, see [star tree indexing structure]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/star-tree-index/#star-tree-index-structure)  |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| `max_leaf_docs` | The maximum number of star-tree documents a leaf node can point to. After the maximum number is reached post which the nodes will be split to the next dimension. Default is `10000`. A lower value will use more storage but result in faster query performance. Inversely, a higher value will use less storage but result in slower query performance.  For more information, see [star tree indexing structure]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/star-tree-index/#star-tree-index-structure).  |
```

> | `max_leaf_docs` | The maximum number of star-tree documents a leaf node can point to. After the maximum number is reached post which the nodes will be split to the next dimension. Default is `10000`. A lower value will use more storage but result in faster query performance. Inversely, a higher value will use less storage but result in slower query performance.  For more information, see [star tree indexing structure]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/star-tree-index/#star-tree-index-structure).  |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| `max_leaf_docs` | The maximum number of star-tree documents a leaf node can point to. After the maximum number is reached post which the nodes will be split to the next dimension. Default is `10000`. A lower value will use more storage but result in faster query performance. Inversely, a higher value will use less storage but result in slower query performance. For more information, see [star tree indexing structure]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/star-tree-index/#star-tree-index-structure).  |
```

> | `max_leaf_docs` | The maximum number of star-tree documents that a leaf node can point to. After the maximum number of documents is reached, the nodes will be split based on the value of the next dimension. Default is `10000`. A lower value will use more storage but result in faster query performance. Inversely, a higher value will use less storage but result in slower query performance. For more information, see [Star-tree indexing structure]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/star-tree-index/#star-tree-index-structure).  |

Author: > the nodes will be split based on the value of the next dimension.

How about `once a node crosses threshold of `max_leaf_docs` , children nodes will be created based on the unique values` or something similar.

> | `skip_star_node_creation_for_dimensions`  | A list of dimensions for which a star-tree index will skip creating the star node. When `true`, this reduces storage size at the expense of query performance. Default is `false`. For more information on star nodes, see [star-tree indexing structure]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/star-tree-index/#star-tree-index-structure) |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| `skip_star_node_creation_for_dimensions`  | A list of dimensions for which a star-tree index will skip creating the star node. When `true`, this reduces storage size at the expense of query performance. Default is `false`. For more information about star nodes, see [star-tree indexing structure]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/star-tree-index/#star-tree-index-structure) |
```
